Hey you're still there.
I know this is a bit of a long project but stick with me.
We're getting really really close.
You see up until now we've built this whole system right.
We have our HCM LCROSS and JavaScript files that we got free templates for and we also implemented our
server so that the browser can actually send data to us and we can actually save that data and even
send a thank you Asia email page back once somebody submits a form our web page is now something more
dynamic than just text that people can read.
People can now interact with our Web page by submitting a form and we now have sent this form data to
our Python server but there was a problem that I mentioned in the last video that is as soon as the
server stops running or maybe it crashes that data is lost because right now that information of the
form is in memory.
Ideally we write it somewhere on disk so that even if we stop the server that information is still somewhere
on a file so that this file lives on this computer just like a file lives on your desktop or laptop.
So how can we do this well we've done this before right.
We simply write to a file.
Now we're going to explore this topic a little bit more throughout the next couple of videos.
But what I want to do is to close off some of these folders and create a new file in here that will
be a text file and this file will just be called database dot DST.
Just a simple text file and this database will act as our database where we store information that the
server receives.
So if you remember we're going to store email we're going to store a subject and then we're going to
store the message so ideally we're able to append or add to this file as people submit the form.
So how can we do this.
If you want to pause the video and give it a try yourself.
Otherwise let's try this we can create a new function here.
Right.
To file this right to file will receive some sort of data that will send and we're going to say with
open again something that we've seen before and we're going to open the database.
And again because it's in the same folder as the server we don't need to specify a file path we can
say database dot text and we're going to open in the mode of a.
So that is to append to that file because it already exists and we'll just call it as database
and in here we'll say that the file will equal database dot right and then write what we want in our
case we want to write the email
the message or the subject and then the message and we can just extract that from our data.
Right.
That we're going to pass in so we can say that e-mail is going to equal the data email
subject is going to equal data subject and their message is going to equal data message because it's
a dictionary.
Right.
And then all we can do here is just do an F string and say that we want we want first of all a new line
so that there's a new line every time there's an entry and we'll say that we want the email comma the
subject and then finally comma the message so that's our right to file.
Function and then in here instead of printing data we can just simply call right to file and pass in
the data so let's save this and see what happens going to come back to the page and then click sent.
All right.
Looks like things have worked.
But let's see if we actually wrote to file if I go to database look at that.
I have my data.
That is the e-mail the subject and the message.
And if I go back to the page let's say go to contact again and this time let's do a different e-mail
some tax some more text hit send and let's go back and how cool is that.
We now have our own custom database where we store all these users information.
And the cool part is that even if I close the server I still have this information with me.
I can always come back and see who has submitted a form.
Very very cool and if by now you realize this is how databases work.
Well good for you.
This is how databases work.
This is why you hear the words database.
A database is essentially a place for you to store data in a safe way outside of the server.
Right.
Because if your information is in memory as soon as the computer closes while that memory is gone instead
a text file like this even if I shut down my computer and and turn it back on is always going to be
on disk and it's what we call persisting.
That is it persists so that it never gets deleted.
But how can we make this better.
Well right now this is just a text file.
This is kind of inconvenient and hard to read maybe we're creating a startup landing page and we're
collecting users information maybe e-mail so we can e-mail people when these startup launches a better
way to create a database is maybe using a CSP file or an excel file.
So in the next video let's explore that.